# Cache Coherence
* Review
    * Value at memory location A should return last value written to A by any processor
        * What is last?
    * Single processor this is easy
    * Multicore
        * What is 2 processors write at same time?
        * What is read follows read so closely in time such that its physical impossible to communicate the new value?
        * We need all processors to see the same right order?
* Properties of Coherence
    * Program order on any processor
    * Write propogation: guarantee that updates will propogate
    * Write serialization: provide a consistent global order seen by all processors
    * Locks and barriers do not solve coherence issue. Why?
    * Do uniprocessors have coherence issues.
    * problem occurs because of private caches
    * How to implement cache coherence.
* Atomic Bus Assumption
    * We assume that bus operations are atomic.
        * one operation finishes before the next one can begin
        * simple, but low throughput
* Scalability
    * Snooping cache protocols are easy to understand & implement
    * Good for small scale
    * But what if you have a 1000 core CMP?
    * Make things distributed
    *
* Directory Base Coherence
    * Logically central directory keeps track of where the copies of each block reside. Caches consult this directory to ensure coherence.
    * Example
        * For each cache block in memory, store P + 1 bits in directory
* Snooping vs. Directory Coherence
    * Snooping
        * Simple
        * Miss Latency (crit path is short) request - bus transcation -> memory
        * Global serialization is easy : bus provides this already (arbitration)
        * Relies on broadcast messages
    * Direcory
        * No broadcast
        *
* False Sharing
    * DO
        * map variables written by different processors on different cache blocks
        * Group variables written by 
    * DONT
        * ...
# Memory Consistency
* Intuition:
    * Assume P1 is in critical section, which means Flag 2 must be 0, which means P@ cannot have executed Flag2 = 1, which means 2 cannot be in critical section
* How can this be violated?
    * Consider a store buffer
        * Remember this from OOO?
        * Can also be used with in-order execution!
        * cannot write it back to memory before write can occur and take effect.o
        * Use additional buffer to execute store out of order
    * 
    *
    *
    *
*
*
*
*
*
# Cache Coherence
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
